Justin Sun (Chinese: 孙宇晨; pinyin: Sūn Yǔchén; born July 30, 1990) is a Chinese-born crypto billionaire and businessman. He is the founder of TRON, a company that develops the TRON blockchain with the associated Tronix (TRX) cryptocurrency token, as well as USDD, a stablecoin issued by TRON DAO Reserve. Sun is also the owner of Rainberry (formerly BitTorrent Inc.), which developed the BitTorrent protocol and under Sun's leadership developed the BTT cryptocurrency token. Sun also owns the crypto currency exchanges Poloniex and HTX (formerly Huobi). Sun was Permanent Representative of Grenada to the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Geneva from 2021 to 2023.
According to Forbes, Sun is the 411th-richest person in the world, with a net worth estimated at $8.5 billion as of April 2026. His net worth is largely held in cryptocurrency, including Tronix tokens (TRX).
Sun's companies have been investigated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). After having formed business ties with Donald Trump, who became president in 2025, Sun's companies received more lenient treatment by the SEC.


Early life and education
Sun was born in 1990. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in history from Peking University and a Master of Arts degree in East Asian studies from the University of Pennsylvania.
At the University of Pennsylvania, Sun became interested in cryptocurrency and invested early in bitcoin. He studied at Jack Ma's Zhejiang Hupan Entrepreneurship Research Center. He became the cover figure of Yazhou Zhoukan in 2011 and a Davos Global Shaper in 2014.


Career


Cryptocurrency and other crypto-related projects
In late 2013, Sun joined Ripple Labs as chief representative and adviser.
Sun founded the blockchain-based operating platform TRON and launched the Tronix (TRX) token in 2017. In September 2017 his company Tron held an initial coin offering (ICO) for the TRX token, a few days before the Chinese government banned ICOs. According to The Verge, Sun was aware of the impending ban, and pushed for the sale to occur before the ban could be announced. Shortly afterwards, Sun left China for the United States. TRON raised about $70 million at its ICO. A cryptocurrency whitepaper Sun published attracted controversy following allegations that it was heavily derivative of earlier cryptocurrency whitepapers without any attribution. As of 2025, Sun currently controls the majority of TRX tokens in circulation.
In June 2018, Sun acquired the company BitTorrent, Inc (later renamed Rainberry Inc.) for $140 million. The company is best known for developing the BitTorrent protocol. During his tenure leading BitTorrent as CEO, the BitTorrent network launched its own utility token, BTT.
Sun is known for his high expectations of Chinese TRON employees, demanding they adopt the 996 working hour system (9 am to 9 pm 6 days a week), as advocated by his mentor Jack Ma.
Sun later acquired the crypto exchange Poloniex. Sun moved the company to the Seychelles, which has lax cryptocurrency regulation, and allegedly ordered the relaxing of the exchange's know your customer infrastructure. The Verge alleged in 2021 that Sun demanded that he should be given personal ownership of misplaced Poloniex customer funds that users accidentally sent to wrong wallet addresses, totaling about 300 bitcoin, despite the objections of Poloniex employees. In November 2023 Poloniex had $120 million stolen by hackers. Sun offered to let the hackers keep $6.5 million if they returned the rest of the money within 7 days.
In October 2021, Sun participated in a $65 million funding round in Hong Kong-based Animoca, a maker of crypto and blockchain video games such as The Sandbox.
In February 2023, he was the largest individual staked ether holder, with a balance of $500 million.
According to Bloomberg News, Sun purchased the cryptocurrency exchange HTX (formerly Huobi) in 2022.
In 2024, Sun invested reportedly at least $75 million in World Liberty Financial, a cryptocurrency company associated with Donald Trump. The financial relationship between Trump and Sun raised potential conflicts of interest, given that Sun's companies were under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In December 2025, The New York Times reported that Sun's companies had received lenient treatment from the SEC after forming business ties with Trump's companies. In April 2026, Sun publicly escalated his dispute with World Liberty Financial, alleging that the Trump family backed venture had restricted his ability to sell his stake and treated investors unfairly. Later that month, Sun filed a lawsuit against World Liberty Financial in a U.S. federal court, accusing the Trump family backed company of "criminal extortion" and alleging that it froze his digital token holdings after he declined to make further investments, resulting in claimed losses of approximately $276 million. In May 2026, World Liberty Financial filed a defamation lawsuit against Sun in a Florida state court, alleging that he had engaged in a public campaign to damage the company's reputation and improperly transferred and shorted WLFI tokens, claims which Sun denied and described as a "meritless PR stunt".
In May 2025, Sun attended a private dinner hosted by President Donald Trump at Trump National Golf Club for top investors in the $TRUMP meme coin, having spent over $40 million on the token and placing first on its public leaderboard.
In May 2026, the UK government sanctioned HTX for alleged violations of international sanctions against Russia.


Diplomacy and relationship with the Chinese government
Sun was appointed Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Grenada, an island country of the West Indies, to the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2021. As a result, Sun phased out of his daily roles at his crypto-related projects such as TRON in order to focus on his diplomatic role at the WTO in Geneva. Sun told Bloomberg he would use his role to advocate cryptocurrency and blockchain technology to countries and promote technology development in Grenada. Sun said the Caribbean has "become a very good place for entrepreneurship" because of its close proximity to the U.S., with less strict regulations regarding cryptocurrency. Sources speaking to The Wall Street Journal alleged that he sought the position to obtain diplomatic immunity amid investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice.
In December 2021, Justin Sun retired as a CEO of TRON to become a diplomat for Grenada.
In March 2023, Sun stepped down from his position as Permanent Representative of Grenada to the World Trade Organization, which followed the previous governing party of Grenada which had appointed him losing power following the general election the previous year.
In October 2024, Sun was elected as a "Speaker of Congress" and appointed as "Prime Minister" of Liberland, a micronation (self-proclaimed country) that claims to own (but does not control) a small region on the Danube river floodplain border between Serbia and Croatia.
Sun allegedly fell out of favour with the Chinese Communist Party following him leaving to the United States, with a 2022 report in The Verge suggesting that former TRON employees said "Sun can never return to China" due to his disfavour. By 2022, his relationship with the CCP had begun to warm, with an article authored by Sun on blockchain being published on Study Xi, Strong Nation (Xuexi Qiangguo, 学习强国), an official CCP app installed on many Chinese smartphones designed to teach Xi Jinping Thought, and Sun was also appointed to a teaching position on blockchain at the Central Party School, which trains CCP members. This turnaround may have been facilitated by his alleged relationship with Luo Dan, a CCP official with ties to the Panchen Lama.


Internet
In 2014, Sun launched Peiwo, an app aspiring to become China's Snapchat that matched and connected users by analyzing 10-second voice samples as well interests. Peiwo has introduced a host of channels for users to make like-minded friends, with online games, talent shows and live streaming. According to Sun it has matched more than 4 billion chats to date. The South China Morning Post described it as a "hook-up app", while The Verge described the app as an "audio-based mashup of Tinder and a live-stream chat room". According to The Verge, the audio chatrooms of Peiwo often had sexually explicit content, which The Verge described as "often border[ing] on some kind of aural pornography". Eventually Peiwo was removed from the Google Play and Apple App Store and shut down by the Chinese government around 2019 for content that "disrupts socialist values."


Legal issues
In 2020, a civil lawsuit was filed against Sun by former TRON employees Lucasz Juraszek and Richard Hall, with allegations "ranging from fraud to harassment to whistleblower retaliation". While the filers sought a public trial, the judge sided with Sun's request for private arbitration. Reporting by The Verge also alleged that TRON, at the direction of Sun, had engaged in market manipulation by buying/selling TRX tokens based on non-public internal information. The Verge also alleged that as of 2022, Sun was under investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Attorney in the Southern District of New York for potential criminal prosecution.
In March 2023, under the Biden administration, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filed suit against Sun for selling unregistered securities related to the sale and promotion of Tron (TRX) and BitTorrent (BTT) tokens. The SEC alleged that Sun and his companies had engaged in fraudulent activities such as wash trading in the secondary market for TRX in order to raise its price. In addition, eight celebrities, including Akon, Ne-Yo, Austin Mahone, Soulja Boy, Lindsay Lohan, Jake Paul and Lil Yachty, were charged with promoting these cryptocurrencies without disclosing that they were sponsored. All of the defendants except Soulja Boy and Austin Mahone settled their cases, making payments in excess of $400,000 without admitting liability.
The SEC dropped its lawsuit against Sun in February 2025, following Donald Trump's inauguration as president. News media sources noted that Sun had purchased $75 million worth of tokens from the Trump-associated World Liberty Financial prior to the SEC dropping the case. According to the Wall Street Journal, the decision "suprised" a number of SEC officials, who were "highly confident in winning the case". Prior to dropping the case, Justin Sun reportedly avoided travel to the United States to avoid being arrested.


Personal life
In 2017, Sun published his autobiography titled Brave New World.
According to a court declaration, Sun is a citizen of Saint Kitts and Nevis, a small Caribbean island nation. Sometime between 2018 and 2020, Sun acquired a Maltese residency card as a result of investing in the country. He has reportedly also attempted to gain citizenship in other countries, like Guinea-Bissau.
Sun placed the winning $4.6 million bid to have a private meal with Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett in June 2019, before canceling it to widespread surprise. The Verge alleged that this was due to pressure from the Chinese government, who The Verge alleged raided TRON's offices and detained Sun's father in retaliation. The dinner with Buffett eventually occurred in early 2020. Sun met with Buffett, a critic of cryptocurrency, at the Happy Hollow Club in Omaha, Nebraska, on January 23, 2020. Sun was joined by other cryptocurrency executives, including leaders of Litecoin, eToro, Huobi, and Binance Charity Foundation. At the dinner, Sun gifted Buffett a phone with bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. The money from the charity auction benefited the Glide Foundation, which Buffett's late wife Susan introduced to Buffett after volunteering there.
In December 2021, Sun announced that he had previously bid $28 million to be the first paying passenger on Blue Origin's first crewed mission into space on the New Shepard. Although he had won the auction, he was unable to attend the July 2021 flight due to a scheduling conflict, but he flew to space in August 2025 aboard Blue Origin NS-34.
In November 2024, Sun purchased one of the three limited edition rights to Comedian, a 2019 conceptual artwork by Maurizio Cattelan consisting of a banana duct-taped to a wall, for $5.2 million ($6.2 million including fees) at an auction in New York. Shortly after the purchase he ate the banana onstage. Sun later pledged to buy 100,000 bananas from the New York street vendor who the banana was originally purchased from (reportedly for 25 cents).


Bibliography
Sun, Yuchen (2017). 这世界既残酷也温柔 [Brave New World] (in Chinese). Jiuzhou Press. ISBN 978-7510850660.


References


External links
Official website
Justin Sun on Twitter
